an experiment here to show why the
hexagonal honeycomb is best
the honeycomb fits in the most area for
the least perimeter and I'm starting
here with the six cups I'm surrounded by
a belt and I'm going to slowly draw in a
belt like jostle the cups and you see as
soon as I start doing so there's room to
add one more cup keep going continuing
to pull in tighter and we're done we
have now the honeycomb pattern with six
cups
arranged in a honeycomb hexagon and the
bill is now around a circle on
surrounding them with you mentioning
hexagons and honey cones I'm instantly
thinking about bees so is this am I
correct about the right area here
exactly if you look at the shape of the
honeycomb it's made out of hexagons with
six sides and those fit together to make
a hexagonal honeycomb and this has
remarkable mathematical properties the
hexagonal honeycomb is the way to fit
the most area with the least perimeter
let's start with three possible
arrangements we'll take
triangle arrangement mass take the
arrangement with squares and we'll take
an arrangement with hexagonal honeycombs
let's look at why the hexagon is better
than the triangle on the shape if I take
a hexagon with the same prisoner as the
triangle so this edge length should be
the same as this edge length this such
length should be the same as this edge
length and I have six segments going
around the triangle and I have six
segments going around the hexagon here
we're able to fit in four triangles but
if I do the same thing with a hexagon we
see that there's room to fit six
triangles instead of four so this has
the same perimeter as this only for fit
with the triangle arrangement but six
fit with the hexagonal arrangement so
that shows the hexagon is better than
the triangle it's a little more
difficult to see why the squares are
worse than the hexagons but again if you
make a square with the same perimeter
as a hexagon the hexagon will contain
more area than a square and the reason
is the hexagon is rounder than the
square and rounder than the triangles we
might try the same thing with an octagon
if I try I'll weighted mmediately run
into a problem and that is there's a
room to fit a third octagon around this
corner
so even though if the Octagon is rounder
than the hexagon these pieces no longer
fit together and so they can't be the
solution to the honeycomb you see quite
confident about saying that that the
hexagons are the best here yes
and the reason is that in 1999 I
produced a proof no possible other shape
even if you allow different chambers to
have different shapes still the hexagon
is the best possible and so it's so says
do we think that maybe the bees already
know this when they're building the
hexagons now this is a question that has
intrigued mathematicians and
philosophers for centuries the hexagonal
arrangement is fast the philosopher
Dennett talks about confidence without
comprehension
football player might not need to
understand physics before kicking a ball
a butterfly doesn't have to understand
the design of the camouflage of its own
wings and bees can have this competence
without comprehension they do not need
to understand why the hexagonal
honeycomb is best
the mathematicians
[Music]
you